Welcome back to Movie Recapped. Today I
will show you a horror film from 2002,
titled Ghost Ship. Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care.
The year is 1962. Aboard the ocean liner
Antonia Graza, the passengers are having
an evening of dinner and dancing to Francesca's
music. A little girl, Katie Harwood, sits alone,
not having fun as the others. A waiter helps her
write "I'm so bored" on her little toy; afterward,
the captain of the ship asks her to
dance with him, which she accepts.
While everyone enjoys themselves, someone
is lifting a lever to unravel some wire.
When the spool finally snaps, it makes the
wire whip on the dance floor, bisecting
all the passengers and crew except Katie, whose
height's allowed the wire to pass above her head.
Forty years later, we meet a crew of salvagers:
Captain Murphy, Maureen Epps, Greer, Dodge,
Munder, and Santos. They're rescuing a ship that
is taking too much water, so Greer isn't sure they
can carry it on for much longer. It was also very
hard to find, so Epps refuses to give up on it so
soon. Using a wire to move between ships, she
enters the rescued boat and finds a punch in
the port floater. Ignoring Murphy's warnings, Epps
starts working on repairing the hole as Munder and
Dodge join her to help: she hammers on a piece
of metal that the men weld. Some hours later,
we learn the group was successful in their rescue
when Murphy brings their pay to their table at a
bar. They're celebrating when they're approached
by a man, Jack Ferriman, who wants to hire them.
Ferriman proceeds to tell them his story: he
flies the Arctic Weather Patrol Flights out of
Mackenzie Bay and last month he was in the middle
of the Strait when he saw something. He shows them
a picture of a ship in the Bering Sea, which
he tried to contact to no avail, so he figured
it was adrift. He told the Coast Guard about it
but since the ship is on international waters,
they only took note of it. He never caught the
ship's name, but he saw it again a few days ago.
Ferriman only asks for 20% of the findings and
promises he hasn't told anyone else about it,
Murphy asks for a minute alone with his crew.
After Ferriman leaves, the crew discusses
if taking this job or not: Greer is hesitant
because they've already been out for six months,
and this would take them another week - he
hasn't seen his fiance in a long time. When
Murphy promises an even split, everyone accepts to
go, and Greer gives in as well. They call Ferriman
over and tell him they'll give him 10%, he accepts
under the condition he goes with them. They set
out in their tugboat at sunset, but it isn't until
later in the rainy night that they find something.
Santos is at the wheel when he sees something
on the radar, so he calls Murphy over. The radar
shows nothing when the captain arrives, so he
thinks Santos imagined things, but seconds later,
the radar shows something again. Murphy calls Epps
to join them and after she arrives, he tries to
contact the mysterious ship while Epps notices how
it shows up and out of the radar by the second.
Suddenly, the large ship appears in front of them,
so Santos has to quickly stop their boat - they
don't fully crash, but the engine gets damaged.
They circle the liner to check it out and Murphy
is surprised to see the name: Antonia Graza.
It's an Italian ship that was reported missing
in 1962 off the coast of Labrador, but the
strange thing is there was no distress signal,
it just disappeared. Since then, every captain
has been looking for her, but now she's theirs.
They bring their ship closer so they can board
her. Greer, Santos, and Ferriman stay behind while
the rest of the crew goes to investigate. They
take note of the condition details of the liner,
like life preserver lockers being
empty and lifeboats being gone.
When they find a door, they go inside, which
makes Greer lost his connection to them.
The crew walks around different rooms, commenting
on the fanciness, when they hear a noise:
they follow it and find a pendulum clock still
ticking that startles Munder when it strikes time.
As their laughter echoes in the ship, they move
onto another room, on a nearby table Katie's old
toy moves on its own and misspells "welcome
aboard". In the tugboat, Greer is bothered by
the lack of communication. But in the liner, the
crew keeps going without worrying much. They enter
a lower level of the ship and keep looking around
when suddenly, the floor breaks under Munder. Epps
grabs him and prevents him from falling, but he's
left hanging and she's brought down to the floor.
While desperately crying for help, Epps sees
Katie through the hole, but she's gone in a blink.
Luckily Dodge and Murphy catch her and pull her
and Munder up before they get hurt. Moments later,
they make it to the ship's bridge. Munder
finds that the compass and the helm are dead,
and Dodge notices the fuel tanks are empty:
the ship must've ridden on until she was dried.
Murphy finds log documentation on a desk, which
he intends to take back with him, and on another
table, Dodge finds a digital watch, which doesn't
make sense because they didn't exist in 1962.
Murphy thinks they aren't the first ones to
find the ship, but it doesn't matter because
it's theirs now. So he orders everyone to go
back, they'll start the towing in the morning.
The crew returns to their tugboat. Ferriman
asks them if they were able to find out what
happened to the liner, Murphy says it's
a very good question and tells them the
story of the Marie Celeste, a ship that went
through the same thing as the Antonia Graza:
she was found empty with no crew or passengers
and no signs of distress, she traveled for miles
at full sail with nobody at the helm. Ferriman
calls her a ghost ship, which Dodge scoffs at.
They discuss their plan afterward: Murphy wants to
tug the liner along as they usually do, but Santos
doesn't think their little tugboat can pull such
a big ship. Greer mentions they could anchor her
and come back later, but Dodge says that Russians
could steal her from them, and Murphy points out
the anchors are gone anyway. So Greer agrees to
get the engines working and drag her with the
tugboat, which will take them two weeks. But he
doesn't mind, since this will pay extremely well.
Meanwhile, Epps can't stop thinking about
what she saw when Munder fell. Ferriman comes
to check on her since she's been very quiet,
and Epps confesses she saw a girl on the ship,
which is impossible. Ferriman tells her he also
sees things sometimes when he's been flying for
too long, and she finds his words comforting. The
next morning, the crew goes scuba-diving to check
on the state of the liner's hull. They confirm
she has a hole and is sinking, she probably got
hit around a week ago. Back inside the tugboat,
they discuss their options. The ship is caught
in a strong current loop that has been slowly
pushing her towards a nearby group of rocks,
they must fix her before she gets hit again. They
have three days to do it, but Munder mentions all
the things they need to work on and points out
three days aren't enough. Santos also thinks he
doesn't have enough gear to fix the engine. Murphy
orders everyone to do it anyway. When Greer says
he's going to call this in following marine law,
Murphy forbids it, he doesn't want any guests.
Santos stays in the tugboat working on the engine
while the rest of the crew boards the liner to
do a full recon before they start working on the
repairs. They divide the group into pairs to work
on different areas, Greer and Murphy are together
but Murphy doesn't allow Greer to enter the
captain's room with him when they find it. Munder
and Dodge are going through a flooded lower level,
heading to the main engine room, when they realize
they're unable to use their walkie-talkies.
Meanwhile, Epps is supposed to be with
Ferriman, but she seems to be alone when
she finds a room with a swimming pool. She gets
inside the pool and finds holes on its walls,
plus bullets on the floor. When she decides
to leave, she starts to climb the pool stairs,
only to find Katie at the top. Startled, she
falls back into the pool and loses consciousness.
In the meantime, Greer continues to look around
while Murphy checks out the captain's room. After
finding the captain's hat, he checks the bathroom,
where he finds blood and a razor on the sink.
The other members of the crew are finding weird
clues as well: Greer sees the elevator has fallen,
and when Dodge and Munder make it to the engine
room, they discover it's totally flooded.
They try to tell the others, but all
they get is static on the talkies.
In the pool, Epps is waking up, unaware that
the blood from her head wound is being absorbed
by the holes on the floor. She asks for Katie to
wait, but the only person there now is Ferriman.
He helps her get out as a different
hole on the wall starts spouting blood.
Back in the captain's room, Murphy finds a glass
of whiskey and when he's about to drink it,
he looks up and finds that the reflection on
the mirror is not his but the liner's captain's.
Startled, he drops the glass and leaves the room
while the mirror shows the old captain again.
Meanwhile, Ferriman and Epps discuss what the
bullets could mean as more holes start spouting
blood, filling the pool with it. Bodies can
be seen floating as Ferriman and Epps leave.
Suddenly, Francesca's singing can be heard over
the walkie-talkies. While Greer follows the voice
into a dining room, Ferriman and Epps find the
central laundry, and Epps decides to check if the
vent is flooded. As soon as she opens it, a strong
wave of water comes out, further flooding the room
and revealing bodies that can only be around a
month old. As the door closes on its own, Epps
tries to contact Murphy to tell him they should
get off this ship, but the talkies aren't working.
They try to leave the way they came in, but since
it's locked now, they take a different side door.
Meanwhile, in the dining room, Greer finds
a piano on the stage, and on top of it,
an ashtray with a cigarette that is still lighted
and has lipstick on it. He also admires a picture
of Francesca, unaware that she's watching him from
afar. Back to Ferriman and Epps, they're moving
through a hallway when Ferriman suddenly enters
a room, excited to find an old car. Epps tells
him they should go, but stops when she realizes
there's something moving under a pile of mailbags.
They kick the bags off and open the box under it,
revealing a bunch of rats that startle Epps and,
most importantly, many bars of gold. As they leave
the room, Epps tries to contact Murphy again,
but on the talkie only there's only static and
a strange voice that calls out her name and asks
for help because it's cold. They keep moving and
find the galley, Epps decides to open the fridge
even if Ferriman warns her not to. She enters
the fridge and is suddenly jumped on by two
people inside meat bags that chase her out and
back to the galley. These people turn out to be
Dodge and Munder playing a prank, Epps interrupts
their laughter by telling them about the bodies
and the gold. Moments later, the whole crew has
reunited and gone to the cargo hold to open the
rest of the boxes. They all contain gold bars,
and the crew immediately starts celebrating their
newfound fortune, but Greer is worried they may be
insured. Dodge points out the markings have been
filed down, so the owner must've wanted the bars
to be untraceable. Greer thinks it's stolen then,
and Murphy thinks this may be why the ship
disappeared. Munder says that explains 1962,
but the bodies they've found are recent, which
causes Greer to confess he heard a woman singing,
making the others laugh at him. Epps proposes
to call the Coast Guard, but Dodge points out
they could equal trouble if the gold truly was
stolen. Murphy reminds them that anything found in
international waters is finders keepers, so they
agree to take the gold and leave the ship behind.
Greer and Santos go back to the boat
while the others get the boxes ready.
As an invisible force opens a propane
tank in the boat's engine room,
Katie appears in front of Epps and warns her
to stop what they're doing, but it's too late.
Another ghost pushes Katie away as Greer starts
the boat, causing the engine room to explode.
Santos catches fire and jumps into the water
right before the rest of the boat also explodes.
Desperate to help, Epps jumps into the water
too and manages to rescue Greer while Ferriman
appears by her side, having found Munder. Santos
is nowhere to be seen, but Katie's observing from
afar. A few moments later, the crew is back in
the liner. While Epps tends to Greer's wounds,
Dodge gets angry at Ferriman for not having
investigated this ship better and tells him
it's his fault Santos is dead. He intends to
punch him, but Greer stops him. Afterward, Epps
goes to the deck, where Murphy is sitting alone
and blaming himself. She tries to comfort him,
but he just silently leaves. Epps returns to
the room with the others and tells them they
should try to repair the ship so they can return
home or at least survive until they're rescued.
Greer would rather build a raft, but
Munder thinks it's not a good idea,
and he asks Epps to wait until morning to start
repairs under good light, which she accepts,
but Greer doesn't. He doesn't think Epps can
guide them through this and keeps on complaining,
causing Munder to insult him. Greer punches him
for it, and Ferriman and Dodge have to drag him
away. As it gets late in the night, we see Katie
dancing around the swimming pool, Murphy returning
to the captain's room to grab the whiskey bottle,
Epps finding Katie on the passengers' list,
Ferriman hanging out in the communications room,
Dodge and Munder competing to see who tries the
old food first, and Greer drinking and talking
to a picture of his fiancé in the dining room.
While Dodge and Munder discover the food
is in good condition but has worms in it,
Epps walks through a hallway trying to find Katie.
All the doors suddenly close around her except for
one, where Epps can hear humming. She enters the
room and finds Katie's toys, clothes and drawings,
but when the closet suddenly opens, she finds
her body as well. Meanwhile, in the dining room,
Greer watches how the room puts itself
back together and people appear around him,
including Francesca on the stage. Back in the
captain's room, the whiskey bottle is moving
and wakes Murphy up, only for him to find the old
captain sitting across from him and offering him a
drink. Back to Greer, he's being approached by
Francesca, who kisses his cheek to seduce him.
He decides that since this isn't real it won't
count as cheating and he can go along with it, so
he kisses her on the mouth. In the meantime, Epps
retrieves a locket from Katie's body and opens it,
finding pictures of her parents. She's about
to close it when Katie appears behind her,
asking her not to close it because she
hasn't seen it in years. After some chitchat,
Epps tries to give her the locket back,
but it goes through Katie's ghost hand.
While in the dining room Francesca gets
Greer to follow her by taking off her dress,
in the captain's room Murphy starts talking to the
captain's ghost. The captain shows him pictures
of a ship they rescued two days before the Graza
disappeared, it was that ship that had the gold.
Murphy recognizes her as the Lorelei and from the
tales, he knows there were no survivors on her.
But the captain shakes his head and shows him
a picture of the one person that was aboard,
causing Murphy to curse. In the meantime, Greer
continues to follow Francesca around while Epps
gets an explanation from Katie. She says all
the ghosts are trapped there because when the
ship has all the souls she needs and fills
her quota, they'll be ferried. She doesn't
get to say where they'll be ferried because
suddenly, blood starts appearing on the ceiling.
Katie says "he" doesn't want her to talk to Epps
and asks her to get off before she disappears.
Meanwhile, Murphy has entered the pool room,
looking for Epps, but he keeps seeing Santos'
ghost everywhere. Back to Greer and Francesca,
she's finished undressing and Greer comes closer
to touch her, but he goes through her and falls
into the elevator shaft, instantly dying. In the
hallways of the ship, Epps has found Ferriman
and together they come across Murphy, who can
only see them as Santos trying to attack him. This
causes him to defend himself and fight Epps, but
Ferriman manages to knock him out by hitting him
from behind. A moment later, after reuniting with
Dodge and Munder, together they lock Murphy in the
aquarium for their safety. As the morning comes,
Epps is watching Murphy in the tank, and the other
three come back saying they couldn't find Greer.
Epps asks them to stick to the plan and try to fix
the boat. A moment later, Epps, Dodge and Munder
go diving into the engine room, and after forcing
the door open, work on fixing the hull. They
think it'll hold, so they get out and test it. The
ship is indeed working now, and Epps moves to the
bridge to steer her, noticing how the current is
taking them to the rock faster than they thought.
She goes back to Dodge and Munder and tells them
to keep control of the drift while she goes down
below to see if she can find Greer. When she
makes it down there, she finds Greer's body
and Katie again. While the men discover a clog in
the engine room, Epps is touched by Katie to show
her memories of what happened. The ship's crew
killed all the passengers through various methods,
then they turned on each other when the time came
to divide the gold. The last standing officer
was approached and killed by Francesca, who in
return was tricked and killed by the mastermind
behind all this: the Lorelei's last survivor,
Ferriman. He's also the one that caused the boat
explosion and, Epps is learning now through these
visions, filled the aquarium to drown Murphy.
Upset by this news, Epps runs to check on her
captain, but it's too late: the vision was true.
Back in the engine room, Munder is diving to
fix the clog while Dodge takes the wheel at the
bridge. Epps shows up then and tells him about
Murphy, Ferriman soon follows but she decides
not to say what she knows. After giving Dodge a
gun she found in the lower levels, she leaves to
check on Munder, asking the other two not to leave
the bridge. In the engine room, Munder is crushed
by the ship's gears, and Epps arrives to guess
what happened when seeing the blood in the water.
Meanwhile, on the bridge, Ferriman taunts Dodge
by calling him a coward for doing everything Epps
says but still won't confess his feelings for her.
He tries to leave the room and Dodge shoots him to
stop him. Back to the engine room, Epps is setting
up explosives when she's approached by Dodge.
He gets angry when he discovers she wants to
blow up the ship, but Epps is suspicious because
he hasn't asked about Munder. Dodge laughs and
reveals he's Ferriman, who took Dodge's place
after killing him. Ferriman is a demonic spirit
whose job is to fill the ship with souls and,
once she's full, takes the ship to hell. He
offers her to live in exchange for the ship,
but she doesn't accept, so he makes a beam hit her
and send her to the water. He jumps after her and
tries to drown her, but Epps finds a crossbow on
the floor so, after pushing Ferriman off her, she
shoots the detonator, causing the ship to explode.
All the souls are freed and Katie appears in front
of Epps to guide her to the surface. Epps swims up
and holds onto some rubble for hours until a ship
arrives to rescue her. The movie ends hours later,
with Epps back on land and being loaded into an
ambulance. When she opens her eyes, she notices
some officers loading the gold into another
ship and Ferriman following them. She tries to
scream, but the doors are closed on her face.